add new article about defect dojo and semgrep (#1113)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/kb/integration/defect-dojo-integration.md

Reviewer: @sebasrevuelta i cannot build/view your PR branch until you update sidebar.js with this new category ("integration"). On that note, I support this new category, makes sense. I would just mention I think we should make it plural, so "integrations". What do you think?

Please see the KB Notion doc for how to update the sidebar.

---
tags:
  - DefectDojo

>   - Integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Integrations
```

description: How to connect Semgrep and DefectDojo
---

# How to connect Semgrep and DefectDojo

[DefectDojo](https://www.defectdojo.com/) is a well-known vulnerability management tool. It allows you to gather security issues from tools like Semgrep and more. By integrating Semgrep findings into DefectDojo, security teams gain additional insight into the security posture of their systems.

## Starting with integration
Integrating Semgrep with DefectDojo means dumping findings detected by Semgrep into DefectDojo.
There are several steps to follow:

1. In DefectDojo:

>     1 Create your **product**. A [product](https://defectdojo-dev.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features.html#products) is DefectDojo's term for a project.

Reviewer 2: "... is DefectDojo's term for a project."

A project of what? Do you mean a project like Jira or like GitHub's Projects feature?

(You can also remove the line.)

    2. In that DefectDojo product, create an **engagement** called `semgrep`. An engagement is a channel to import results.
2. Run a semgrep scan with flags `--json --output report.json` to generate a JSON report.

Now, there are all the necessary elements to start playing with [DefectDojo API](https://documentation.defectdojo.com/integrations/api-v2-docs/).

### DefectDojo API example 

> To run API DefectDojo operations (GET, POST, DELETE, etc..), an API token is necessary. To get it, follow [API guide](https://documentation.defectdojo.com/integrations/api-v2-docs/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To run API DefectDojo operations such as GET, POST, and DELETE, an API token is necessary. To get it, follow [API guide](https://documentation.defectdojo.com/integrations/api-v2-docs/).
```

> * Once got it in your system, declare the environment variable `DEFECT_DOJO_API_TOKEN`

Reviewer 2: What system are we using this in? Is this intended to run in a CI environment or local development machine?

```

> export DEFECT_DOJO_API_TOKEN=xxxxxx

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
export DEFECT_DOJO_API_TOKEN=[YOUR_DEFECT_DOJO_TOKEN]
```

```
Exploring the DefectDojo API, the endpoint is: `/api/v2/import-scan/` for the first import and `/api/v2/reimport-scan` for the following imports.

> These endpoints receive some parameters. Mandatory are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These endpoints receive some parameters. The following must be specified:
```

> * Semgrep report (JSON format)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The Semgrep scan findings report or export in JSON format
```

> * Scan type: `Semgrep JSON Report` for Semgrep importation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `scan_type`: A descriptive name for the scan type. In this example, we use "Semgrep JSON Report" for Semgrep importation.
```

> * Product Name (project name)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `product_name`: The name of the product in DefectDojo to send the Semgrep findings report to.
```

> * Engagement Name (a good practice is to name `semgrep`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `engagement_name`: Depending on your use case, the [`engagement_name`](https://defectdojo-dev.readthedocs.io/en/latest/about.html#engagements) can describe a moment in time that the test is taking place in, or it can be used as a simple description about the import. In this case, you can name it `semgrep`.
```

I went through DefectDojo's docs to get a better understanding of how their users might also be using engagement_name.

So a Python function using this endpoint can look like this:

```
def uploadToDefectDojo(is_new_import, token, url, product_name, engagement_name, filename):
    multipart_form_data = {
        'file': (filename, open(filename, 'rb')),
        'scan_type': (None, 'Semgrep JSON Report'),
        'product_name': (None, product_name),
        'engagement_name': (None, engagement_name),
    }

    endpoint = '/api/v2/import-scan/' if is_new_import else '/api/v2/reimport-scan/'
    r = requests.post(
        url + endpoint,
        files=multipart_form_data,
        headers={
            'Authorization': 'Token ' + token,
        }
    )
    if r.status_code != 200:
        sys.exit(f'Post failed: {r.text}')
    print(r.text)
```

> The full version of this Python script can be found in this [repository](https://github.com/r2c-CSE/semgrep-utilities/blob/main/integrations/defectdojo/import_semgrep_to_defect_dojo.py).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The full version of this Python script can be found in the [Semgrep Utilities repository](https://github.com/r2c-CSE/semgrep-utilities/blob/main/integrations/defectdojo/import_semgrep_to_defect_dojo.py).
```
Just made the link more descriptive. [https://developers.google.com/style/link-text][(url](https://developers.google.com/style/link-text))

It is ready to execute.

### Running the script

To run the script:
```
python3 integrations/defectdojo/import_semgrep_to_defect_dojo.py --host DOJO_URL --product PRODUCT_NAME --engagement ENGAGEMENT_NAME --report REPORT_FILE 
```
Where:
* `DOJO_URL` is the URL where DefectDojo is.
* `PRODUCT_NAME` is the DefectDojo product name.
* `ENGAGEMENT_NAME` is the DefectDojo engagement name for that product.
* `REPORT_FILE` is the Semgrep report path

> ## Integrate Semgrep and DefectDojo in a pipeline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Integrating Semgrep and DefectDojo in a CI pipeline
```

> From a DevSecOps point of view is crucial to integrate security scans and dump results to DefectDojo in the same pipeline.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To prevent tampering at any point of delivery, it is crucial to integrate security scans and dump results to DefectDojo in the **same pipeline or CI job**.
```

> An example of GitLab job importing results to DefectDojo taking as input a Semgrep report looks like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following is an example of a GitLab job importing Semgrep findings to DefectDojo:
```

```
import-semgrep-to-defectdojo:
  stage: import
  image: python:3.9-bullseye
  script:
    - echo "Importing Semgrep scan to DefectDojo"
    - pip3 install requests
    - curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/r2c-CSE/semgrep-utilities/main/integrations/defectdojo/import_semgrep_to_defect_dojo.py
    - python3 import_semgrep_to_defect_dojo.py --host $DEFECTDOJO_URL --product $PRODUCT --engagement semgrep --report report.json || true
  rules:
    # Scan changed files in MRs, (diff-aware scanning):
    - if: $CI_MERGE_REQUEST_IID
    # Scan mainline (default) branches and report all findings.
    - if: $CI_COMMIT_BRANCH == $CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH
  tags:
    - defectdojo
  variables:
    DEFECT_DOJO_API_TOKEN: $DEFECT_DOJO_API_TOKEN
```

> ### Adding checksum validation

Reviewer 2: When does the checksum validation happen? During or after the CI job?

Reviewer 2: I see your addition, thanks!

> During CI job and to verify that the job downloads the correct Python script securely, check the integrity with a checksum such as SHA 256 code. It prevents tampered scripts from executing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During the CI job and to verify that the job downloads the correct Python script securely, check the integrity with a checksum such as SHA 256 code. It prevents tampered scripts from executing.
```

---
tags:
  - DefectDojo
  - Integration
description: How to connect Semgrep and DefectDojo
---

# How to connect Semgrep and DefectDojo

[DefectDojo](https://www.defectdojo.com/) is a well-known vulnerability management tool. It allows you to gather security issues from tools like Semgrep and more. By integrating Semgrep findings into DefectDojo, security teams gain additional insight into the security posture of their systems.

## Starting with integration

> Integrate Semgrep with DefectDojo means dumping findings detected by Semgrep into DefectDojo.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Integrating Semgrep with DefectDojo means dumping findings detected by Semgrep into DefectDojo.
```

There are several steps to follow:

> * In DefectDojo:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In DefectDojo:
```

>     * Create your product (a product is DefectDojo's concept for a project).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1 Create your **product**. A [product](https://defectdojo-dev.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features.html#products) is DefectDojo's term for a project.
```

Just checking - do you mean "project" similar to [GitHub projects](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/planning-and-tracking-with-projects/learning-about-projects/about-projects)? That was my first thought. I saw DefectDojo docs about Product, it looks similar but for security management rather than project management.

>     * For that DefectDojo product, create an engagement called `semgrep` (an engagement is like a channel to import results)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2. In that DefectDojo product, create an **engagement** called `semgrep`. An engagement is a channel to import results.
```

> * Run a semgrep scan with flags `--json --output report.json` to generate a JSON report.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Run a semgrep scan with flags `--json --output report.json` to generate a JSON report.
```

Just converting your bullet points to an ordered list :)

Now, there are all the necessary elements to start playing with [DefectDojo API](https://documentation.defectdojo.com/integrations/api-v2-docs/)

> ### DefectDojo API Example 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### DefectDojo API example 
```
Google style guide: [use sentence case for headings](https://developers.google.com/style/capitalization#:~:text=In%20document%20titles%20and%20headings,always%20capitalized%20a%20certain%20way.)

An example of GitLab job importing results to DefectDojo taking as input a Semgrep report looks like this:

```
import-semgrep-to-defectdojo:
  stage: import
  image: python:3.9-bullseye
  script:
    - echo "Importing Semgrep scan to DefectDojo"
    - pip3 install requests
    - curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/r2c-CSE/semgrep-utilities/main/integrations/defectdojo/import_semgrep_to_defect_dojo.py
    - python3 import_semgrep_to_defect_dojo.py --host $DEFECTDOJO_URL --product $PRODUCT --engagement semgrep --report report.json || true
  rules:
    # Scan changed files in MRs, (diff-aware scanning):
    - if: $CI_MERGE_REQUEST_IID
    # Scan mainline (default) branches and report all findings.
    - if: $CI_COMMIT_BRANCH == $CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH
  tags:
    - defectdojo
  variables:
    DEFECT_DOJO_API_TOKEN: $DEFECT_DOJO_API_TOKEN
```

### Adding checksum validation
To verify the job downloads the correct Python script, it is essential, from a security point of view, to check the integrity with a checksum such as SHA 256 code. It avoids the execution of tampered 

> scripts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
Unintentional newline I think.

```
    - echo $IMPORT_SEMGREP_TO_DEFECTDOJO_SHA_CHECKSUM > sha-import-dd.tmp
    - shasum -a 256 -U -c sha-import-dd.tmp
```
Where:
* `IMPORT_SEMGREP_TO_DEFECTDOJO_SHA_CHECKSUM` is the result of executing `shasum -a 256 -U import_semgrep_to_defect_dojo.py`

## Conclusions

> Dump Semgrep security results to [DefectDojo](https://www.defectdojo.com/) can speed up vulnerability management operations in an organization. Integrating scans and imports in the same CI pipeline should 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dumping Semgrep scan results to [DefectDojo](https://www.defectdojo.com/) can speed up vulnerability management operations in an organization. Integrating scans and imports in the same CI pipeline should be a high priority for DevSecOps programs.
```

* I think there was another unintentional newline, so I just copied the line below.
* Are you saying that "integrating scans and imports in the same CI pipeline" prevents the data from being tampered?

> be a high priority for DevSecOps programs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

---
tags:
  - DefectDojo
  - Integration
description: How to connect Semgrep and DefectDojo
---

# How to connect Semgrep and DefectDojo

> ## Motivation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Users understand that the opening paragraph of your doc is an introduction without the need for a heading :)

> [DefectDojo](https://www.defectdojo.com/) is a well-known vulnerability management tool. It allows you to gather security issues from tools like Semgrep and others.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[DefectDojo](https://www.defectdojo.com/) is a well-known vulnerability management tool. It allows you to gather security issues from tools like Semgrep and more. By integrating Semgrep findings into DefectDojo, security teams gain additional insight into the security posture of their systems.
```
